=======================
Versions 3.0+ Changelog
=======================

These are all the changelogs for stable releases of hikari-miru (version 3.0.0 to present).

Version 3.4.0
=============

- Add ``miru.ext.menu``, which aims to make creating complex, nested menus easy. See the documentation & example on how to use it.
- Overhaul ``View`` autodefer logic. ``ViewContext`` are now automatically deferred if a response is not issued within 2 seconds, even if the callback is still running.
- Large amounts of typing improvements across the library.

Version 3.3.1
=============

- Fix ``View.last_context`` and ``Modal.last_context`` incorrectly casting variable types.

Version 3.3.0
=============

- Add support for Python 3.12
- Improve Context typing in callbacks for better typechecking experience when using custom contexts.
- Minor changes to the type signature of ``ModalContext.get_value_by_id()`` and ``ModalContext.get_value_by_predicate()``

Version 3.2.2
=============

- Fix ``miru.abc.Item.position`` setter max value being it's width instead of row width.

Version 3.2.1
=============

- Fix ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView`` defaulting to ephemeral by default.

Version 3.2.0
=============

- Add the ability to pass ``miru.Context`` to ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.send()`` instead of an interaction or channel.
- Added ``miru.ext.nav.Page`` to represent a page with a complex payload.
- Updated ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView()`` and ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.swap_pages()`` to accept ``miru.ext.nav.Page`` instances.

Version 3.1.3
=============

- Fix ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.on_timeout`` to properly edit provided initial interactions on timeout.
- Fix ``miru.InteractionResponse`` from always deleting the initial response.

Version 3.1.2
=============

- Update ``miru.View.message`` in bound views when receiveing an interaction.
- Fix ``IndexError`` being raised when trying to add pages to a ``miru.ext.nav.utils.Paginator``.
- Fix ``miru.ext.nav.NavItem`` missing ``width`` from it's ``__init__``.

Version 3.1.1
=============

- Fix ``miru.Item.position``'s setter being called before ``width`` is set.

Version 3.1.0
=============

- Added ``miru.Button.position`` attribute, setting it will determine the ordering of buttons within a row.
- Remove deprecated functions ``miru.load()`` and ``miru.unload()``, please use ``miru.install()`` and ``miru.uninstall()`` instead.
- Fixed multiple embed support for navigators.

Version 3.0.3
=============

- Updated to hikari v2.0.0.dev118

Version 3.0.2
=============

- Fixed new select variants throwing errors if no options were selected.
- Fixed an issue with new select variant values not being subscriptable.

Version 3.0.1
=============

- Fixed not being able to instantiate items that derive from ``miru.ext.nav.NavItem``.

Version 3.0.0
=============

- BREAKING: ``miru.Select`` has been renamed to ``miru.TextSelect`` along with the decorator ``miru.select`` to ``miru.text_select``.
- BREAKING: ``miru.ext.nav.NavSelect`` has been renamed to ``miru.NavTextSelect``.
- Added ``miru.UserSelect``, ``miru.RoleSelect``, ``miru.ChannelSelect``, ``miru.MentionableSelect`` along with their respective decorators.
- Added ``Nav`` variants of all new selects to ``miru.ext.nav``.
- Added ``miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.swap_pages()`` to allow mutating the pages of a navigator after instantiation.
- Added initial framework and CI for unit testing in the library.
- Improved the validation of item properties.
- Added note about ``miru.load`` and ``miru.unload`` being removed in 3.1.0 to deprecation warning.
- Fixed ``TextInput.min_length`` and ``TextInput.max_length`` not being able to be set to ``None``.
- Minor documentation and other fixes.