---
title: Versions 3.0 - 3.4.0
description: Changelogs
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Versions 3.0 - 3.4.0

These are all the changelogs for stable releases of hikari-miru (version 3.0.0 to 3.4.0).

## Version 3.4.0

- Add `miru.ext.menu`, which aims to make creating complex, nested menus easy. See the documentation & example on how to use it.
- Overhaul `View` autodefer logic. `ViewContext` are now automatically deferred if a response is not issued within 2 seconds, even if the callback is still running.
- Add `ItemHandler.get_item_by()` and `ItemHandler.get_item_by_id()`.
- Deprecate `ModalContext.get_value_by_predicate` in favour of `ModalContext.get_value_by`. It will be removed in the next minor release (3.5.0).
- Large amounts of typing improvements across the library.
- Add `CONTRIBUTING.md` and configuration for common editors for better developer experience.

## Version 3.3.1

- Fix `View.last_context` and `Modal.last_context` incorrectly casting variable types.

## Version 3.3.0

- Add support for Python 3.12
- Improve Context typing in callbacks for better typechecking experience when using custom contexts.
- Minor changes to the type signature of `ModalContext.get_value_by_id()` and `ModalContext.get_value_by_predicate()`.

## Version 3.2.2

- Fix `miru.abc.Item.position` setter max value being it's width instead of row width.

## Version 3.2.1

- Fix `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView` defaulting to ephemeral by default.

## Version 3.2.0

- Add the ability to pass `miru.Context` to `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.send()` instead of an interaction or channel.
- Add `miru.ext.nav.Page` to represent a page with a complex payload.
- Update `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView()` and `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.swap_pages()` to accept `miru.ext.nav.Page` instances.

## Version 3.1.3

- Fix `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.on_timeout` to properly edit provided initial interactions on timeout.
- Fix `miru.InteractionResponse` from always deleting the initial response.

## Version 3.1.2

- Update `miru.View.message` in bound views when receiveing an interaction.
- Fix `IndexError` being raised when trying to add pages to a `miru.ext.nav.utils.Paginator`.
- Fix `miru.ext.nav.NavItem` missing `width` from it's `__init__`.

## Version 3.1.1

- Fix `miru.Item.position`'s setter being called before `width` is set.

## Version 3.1.0

- Add `miru.Button.position` attribute, setting it will determine the ordering of buttons within a row.
- Remove deprecated functions `miru.load()` and `miru.unload()`, use `miru.install()` and `miru.uninstall()` instead.
- Fix multiple embed support for navigators.

## Version 3.0.3

- Update to hikari `v2.0.0.dev118`

## Version 3.0.2

- Fix new select variants throwing errors if no options were selected.
- Fix an issue with new select variant values not being subscriptable.

## Version 3.0.1

- Fix not being able to instantiate items that derive from `miru.ext.nav.NavItem`.

## Version 3.0.0

- **BREAKING:** `miru.Select` has been renamed to `miru.TextSelect` along with the decorator `miru.select` to `miru.text_select`.
- **BREAKING:** `miru.ext.nav.NavSelect` has been renamed to `miru.NavTextSelect`.
- Add `miru.UserSelect`, `miru.RoleSelect`, `miru.ChannelSelect`, `miru.MentionableSelect` along with their respective decorators.
- Add `Nav` variants of all new selects to `miru.ext.nav`.
- Add `miru.ext.nav.NavigatorView.swap_pages()` to allow mutating the pages of a navigator after instantiation.
- Add initial framework and CI for unit testing in the library.
- Improve the validation of item properties.
- Add note about `miru.load` and `miru.unload` being removed in 3.1.0 to deprecation warning.
- Fix `TextInput.min_length` and `TextInput.max_length` not being able to be set to ``None``.
- Minor documentation and other fixes.
